# Database Setup

> This section shows how to setup and configure your database connection in your Aero application and is intended for users who wants to create their application from scratch and not have this code generated by any of the available [project templates](project-templates).
>
> More information on `Entity Framework Core` can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef?WT.mc_id=DOP-MVP-5003834).

## About Entity Framework Core

Even though Aero can be used with **any** kind of data mapper or data layer we only provide packages for `Entity Framework Core`.

Entity Framework is a modern object-database mapper for .NET provided by Microsoft. It supports `LINQ` queries, `change tracking`, `updates`, and `schema migrations`. EF Core works with many databases, including `SQL Database` (on-premises and Azure), `SQLite`, `MySQL`, `PostgreSQL`, and `Azure Cosmos DB`.

## Schema Migrations

In Entity Framework schema migrations are **database dependent**, this means that you need different packages depending on which database you are targeting. It also means that you can't just copy a database schema from one type of database to another. With this said it's always easier to use the **same type of database** for development as you will use in production.

## Officially supported databases

These are the different databases that we currently support.

| Database | Context Name | NuGet Package |
|----------|--------------|---------------|
| MySql | `MySqlDb`  | `Aero.Data.EF.MySql` |
| PostgreSql | `PostgreSqlDb` | `Aero.Data.EF.PostgreSql` |
| SQL Server | `SQLServerDb` | `Aero.Data.EF.SQLServer` |
| SQLite | `SQLiteDb` | `Aero.Data.EF.SQLite` |

## Configuring EF Core

Here we will take a look at the basics for configuring Aero for Entity Framework Core. Specifics on the different database packages can be found in the [Databases](../architecture/databases) article in the Architecture section.

### ConfigureServices

The current Entity Framework context that should be available should be configured in the method `ConfigureServices` in `Startup.cs`. In this example we're using the `DbContext` for `SQLite` as shown in the table above, but this should be changed to the database you're currently using.

~~~ csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddAero(options =>
    {
        ...

        options.UseEF<SQLiteDb>(db =>
            db.UseSqlite("Filename=./AeroWeb.db"));
    });
}
~~~

## Additional Configuration

#### Connection Pool Size

By default Aero uses a connection pool size of `128`, which is the default size of `Entity Framework`. This can be configured in the application startup by setting the parameter `poolSize` when setting up the connection.

~~~ csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddAero(options =>
    {
        ...

        options.UseEF<SQLiteDb>(db =>
            db.UseSqlite("Filename=./AeroWeb.db"), poolSize: 32);
    });
}
~~~

## More Information

For more information, please refer to the [Databases](../architecture/databases) article in the Architecture section.